Switch python generator to pybind11 (#2644)
valhalla/valhalla: CMakeLists.txt

find_package(Threads REQUIRED)
find_package(ZLIB REQUIRED)

# For some reason Win and Python messes with libcurl
if(ENABLE_PYTHON_BINDINGS AND WIN32)
  find_package(CURL REQUIRED)
  link_libraries(${CURL_LIBRARIES})
  include_directories(${CURL_INCLUDE_DIRS})
endif()

> 

Author: NO idea what I'm doing there.. But somehow that's the only way I could make it work when compiling the Python bindings for _and_ on (also one of the very few things I tried..). If that's not set MSVC (and MinGW) errors out with missing links to the `curl` library, similar to https://github.com/valhalla/valhalla/pull/2619#discussion_r498091384 when MinGW didn't find curl..

@mloskot if you have a clue how to that better feel free to comment.. feels very suboptimal.. though I realize you're likely not that interested in the bindings

Reviewer: @nilsnolde I don't know why cURL is needed for the bindings.

I have no experience with pybind11, but is this intentional to remove uses of [FindPythonLibs.cmake](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/module/FindPythonLibs.html)?

Author: Not asking why it's needed for python (though it shouldn't be needed, maybe some distant dependency from some file..). I'm more asking why MSVC would have problems finding curl as two lines down it again tries to find it. Note, I only need the additional curl lines I added when 1) on Windows & Fedora/MinGW and 2) PYTHON_BINDINGS=ON.

> I have no experience with pybind11, but is this intentional to remove uses of FindPythonLibs.cmake?

Not sure what you mean, but python/pybind has its own CMake where somewhere there's FindPython.cmake by pybind.

Reviewer: > I'm more asking why MSVC would have problems finding curl as two lines down it again tries to find it.

Well, it does try to find it, but only `if(ENABLE_HTTP OR ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS)`. 
If that is all false, cURL is not being searched, obviously, but something is still requiring it. 🤷 

All these lines, however, seem redundant indeed
```
# For some reason Win and Python messes with libcurl
if(ENABLE_PYTHON_BINDINGS AND WIN32)
  find_package(CURL REQUIRED)
  link_libraries(${CURL_LIBRARIES})
  include_directories(${CURL_INCLUDE_DIRS})
endif()
```

Author: Forgot to mention: I had both variables ON and it still didn't find the curl library when bindings were ON as well.

I changed it slightly to 
```
if(NOT TARGET CURL::CURL)
  add_library(CURL::CURL INTERFACE IMPORTED)
  if(ENABLE_HTTP OR ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS OR ENABLE_PYTHON_BINDINGS)
    if(NOT CURL_FOUND)
      find_package(CURL REQUIRED)
      if (WIN32 AND ENABLE_PYTHON_BINDINGS)
        link_libraries(${CURL_LIBRARIES})
      endif()
    endif()
```

Is that better you think? Guess it's the lazy version instead of fully investigating why that happens and fix the source of the problem. I've seen worse patches though;)

Reviewer: it seems better w.r.t. to having single place of `find_package(CURL)` call, but the root of the linking issue is still unknown indeed. I have no idea.

if(NOT TARGET CURL::CURL)
  add_library(CURL::CURL INTERFACE IMPORTED)
  if(ENABLE_HTTP OR ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS OR ENABLE_PYTHON_BINDINGS)
    if(NOT CURL_FOUND)
      find_package(CURL REQUIRED)
      if (WIN32 AND ENABLE_PYTHON_BINDINGS)

>         link_libraries(${CURL_LIBRARIES})

Reviewer 2: im guess on windows you are getting a linker error without this? im wondering why that would be.. surely pybind11 doesnt need curl linking?

Reviewer 2: ahh i see the discussion above, can you post the link error you get when you comment out these lines. maybe somethign will pop out at someone

Author: jup, linker error. pybind doesn't need curl, must be some include in `python.cc`, couldn't really decipher which one though. it was the same with boost.python.

Reviewer: @nilsnolde If you run CMake with Visual Studio generator and open the solution in VS IDE, you can edit properties of the bindings project, and toggle the [/showIncludes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/reference/showincludes-list-include-files), then build just the bindings (or just compile the `python.cc`) and it will dump all the headers included from the `python.cc`. That may give some clues.

Author: I tried, but couldn't make it work.. Always worked in VS Code, I couldn't stand VS IDE from the first moment on.. I tried a `new project from existing sources` and (with a minute-old fresh install), it configured alright, but then the properties are grayed out:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25637358/95977896-b941ca80-0e19-11eb-9eff-1b88b67a100c.png)

And under Project menu item there's no Properties entry either. 

For @kevinkreiser, here's the error log, unable to link to curl:
```
[build]      Creating library C:/Users/nilsn/Documents/dev/cpp/valhalla/build/src/bindings/python/Release/python_valhalla.lib and object C:/Users/nilsn/Documents/dev/cpp/valhalla/build/src/bindings/python/Release/python_valhalla.exp
[build] valhalla.lib(curler.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol __imp_curl_global_init [C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\python_valhalla.vcxproj]
[build] valhalla.lib(curler.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol __imp_curl_global_cleanup [C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\python_valhalla.vcxproj]
[build] valhalla.lib(curler.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol __imp_curl_easy_init [C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\python_valhalla.vcxproj]
[build] valhalla.lib(curler.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol __imp_curl_easy_setopt [C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\python_valhalla.vcxproj]
[build] valhalla.lib(curler.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol __imp_curl_easy_perform [C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\python_valhalla.vcxproj]
[build] valhalla.lib(curler.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol __imp_curl_easy_cleanup [C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\python_valhalla.vcxproj]
[build] valhalla.lib(curler.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol __imp_curl_easy_getinfo [C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\python_valhalla.vcxproj]
[build] C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\Release\python_valhalla.cp39-win_amd64.pyd : fatal error LNK1120: 7 unresolved externals [C:\Users\nilsn\Documents\dev\cpp\valhalla\build\src\bindings\python\python_valhalla.vcxproj]
```

Reviewer: @nilsnolde That is because you opened CMake directly, so VS runs in CMake mode. I suggested to run CMake from CLI to generate `.sln` and `.vcxproj` files, what then allows you to compile single source files.
Anyway, it does not have to be VS IDE, it can be any UI you prefer, CLI included, as long as you can add `/showIncludes` to `CL.EXE` command line, what actually was the gist of my suggestion.

Reviewer 2: when you are configuring are you configuring with `ENABLE_HTTP=On`? if not, ie if you have it set to `Off` (the default is `On`), then the code inside curler that makes use of curl should be disabled unless for some reason we have python bindings turning ENABLE_HTTP back on? we should probably have a look through cmake to see if there is a bug there somewhere...

Author: Pretty sure it's not exactly what you were after, anyways here's the output of compiling python.cc until it can't find the proto headers (which need to be compiled first): https://gist.github.com/nilsnolde/3d7d81d762e1dc21a9f97e70eba96848

I couldn't follow really what you were saying.. I have no idea how to use `.vcxproj` files with `cl.exe`.. The above is the output simply linking a few headers before compiling python.cc in the `valhalla/src/bindings/python/` folder

Author: Apparently it doesn't matter for the MVSC build whether ENABLE_HTTP is ON or OFF @kevinkreiser. Both configs fail in the exact same way when PYTHON_BINDINGS is ON (without the extra lines above).

Reviewer 2: very interesting we must have a long standing bug there then? ill have a look later on today!

Author: thanks @mloskot :)

Reviewer 2: is it possible that the python dll in windows links curl but somehow doesnt advertise that fact? on my version of linux libpython does not link curl and ive had a look at the python soruce and its configure.ac also doesnt seem to reference curl as a dependency. that makes me think that indeed we have some other long standing bug in our cmake files that is causing windows to require curl all the time! still didnt get a chance to look yet but i'll do so shortly. imho this little oddity is the only thing blockign this PR

Author: Oh boy, now it gets weird.. Python is not dependent on curl: When I compile with `ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS=OFF` (and ENABLE_HTTP=OFF), I have no issues with curl and the python target (and all others which are enabled in that combo) build smoothly. 

It seems smth is not working right with `curler.cc` `#ifdef CURL_STATICLIB`.. If I switch that with smth I know I don't have (e.g. `#ifdef HAVE_HTTP=ON`), then all targets compile **also with `ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS=ON`**. There's even targets in `DATA_TOOLS` which use curl, e.g. `valhalla_fetch_transit` and running that doesn't seem to be an issue:
```
2020/10/15 08:20:04.872656 ←[32;1m[INFO]←[0m Fetching transit feeds
2020/10/15 08:20:07.601253 ←[33;1m[WARN]←[0m 404'd retrying http://transit.land//api/v1/feeds.geojson?per_page=false&api_key=transitland-YOUR_KEY_SUFFIX&bbox=-122.469,37.502,-121.78,38.018&active_feed_version_import_level=4
```

So smth weird seems to happen with the combo Python/ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS and libcurl. Does that ring a bell with anyone?

>   if(ENABLE_HTTP OR ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS OR ENABLE_PYTHON_BINDINGS)
>     if(NOT CURL_FOUND)
>       find_package(CURL REQUIRED)
>       if (WIN32 AND ENABLE_PYTHON_BINDINGS)
>         link_libraries(${CURL_LIBRARIES})
>       endif()
>     endif()
>     set_target_properties(CURL::CURL PROPERTIES
>       #INTERFACE_LINK_LIBRARIES "${CURL_LIBRARIES}"

Reviewer 2: maybe this will work work:

```suggestion
  if(ENABLE_HTTP OR ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS)
    if(NOT CURL_FOUND)
      find_package(CURL REQUIRED)
    endif()
    set_target_properties(CURL::CURL PROPERTIES
            INTERFACE_INCLUDE_DIRECTORIES "${CURL_INCLUDE_DIR}"
      INTERFACE_COMPILE_DEFINITIONS CURL_STATICLIB)
    set_property(TARGET CURL::CURL APPEND PROPERTY INTERFACE_LINK_LIBRARIES "${CURL_LIBRARIES}")
  else()
    message(STATUS "Using curl from the outside")
  endif()
```

and failing that, maybe could works:

```suggestion
  if(ENABLE_HTTP OR ENABLE_DATA_TOOLS)
    if(NOT CURL_FOUND)
      find_package(CURL REQUIRED)
    endif()
    set_target_properties(CURL::CURL PROPERTIES
            INTERFACE_INCLUDE_DIRECTORIES "${CURL_INCLUDE_DIR}"
      INTERFACE_COMPILE_DEFINITIONS CURL_STATICLIB)
    if(NOT MSVC)
      set_property(TARGET CURL::CURL APPEND PROPERTY INTERFACE_LINK_LIBRARIES "${CURL_LIBRARIES}")
      else()
        link_libraries(${CURL_LIBRARIES})
      endif()
    endif()
  else()
    message(STATUS "Using curl from the outside")
  endif()
```

Author: Wonderful @kevinkreiser ! and easy.. should've tried to understand the logic here better.. 

Note, the first example errors on
```
[cmake] CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:137 (set_property):
[cmake]   Property INTERFACE_LINK_LIBRARIES may not contain link-type keyword
[cmake]   "optimized".  The INTERFACE_LINK_LIBRARIES property may contain
[cmake]   configuration-sensitive generator-expressions which may be used to specify
[cmake]   per-configuration rules.
```
Which does sound like a libcurl (or vcpkg?) issue.. didn't find much but same issues for other libs suggest it's the lib's CMake file being the issue. 

Anyways, second option works, not as nice option1, but still a lot better than mine! Fine for you too @kevinkreiser ?
